Machine translation (MT) is automated translation. It is the process by which computer software is used to translate a text from one natural language (such as English) to another (such as Spanish).

To process any translation, human or automated, the meaning of a text in the original (source) language must be fully restored in the target language, i.e. the translation. While on the surface this seems straightforward, it is far more complex. Translation is not a mere word-for-word substitution. A translator must interpret and analyze all of the elements in the text and know how each word may influence another. This requires extensive expertise in grammar, syntax (sentence structure), semantics (meanings), etc., in the source and target languages, as well as familiarity with each local region.

The greater challenge lies in how machine translation can produce publishable quality translations. There are two approaches to this process.

Rule-Based Machine Translation Technology
-----------------------------------------
Rule-based machine translation relies on countless built-in linguistic rules and millions of bilingual dictionaries for each language pair.

Steps:
1. We need to parse text and create a transistional representation from which the text in the target language is generated.
2. Learn rule sets and transfer the grammatical structure of the source language into the target language.
3. Create vocabulary and linguistic rules.

Statistical Machine Translation Technology
------------------------------------------
SMT utilizes statistical translation models whose parameters stem from the analysis of monolingual and bilingual corpora. 
Building statistical translation models is a quick process, but the technology relies heavily on existing multilingual corpora. 
A minimum of 2 million words for a specific domain and even more for general language are required. 
Theoretically it is possible to reach the quality threshold but most companies do not have such large amounts of existing multilingual corpora to build the necessary translation models. 
Additionally, statistical machine translation is CPU intensive and requires an extensive hardware configuration to run translation models for average performance levels.

Rule-Based MT					Statistical MT
+ Consistent and predictable quality		– Unpredictable translation quality
+ Out-of-domain translation quality		– Poor out-of-domain quality
+ Knows grammatical rules			– Does not know grammar
+ High performance and robustness		– High CPU and disk space requirements
+ Consistency between versions			– Inconsistency between versions
– Lack of fluency				+ Good fluency
– Hard to handle exceptions to rules		+ Good for catching exceptions to rules
– High development and customization costs	+ Rapid and cost-effective development costs provided the required corpus exists